# Unstaking & The Withdrawal Queue

To unstake your `stAVAX` and receive your original `AVAX` plus accumulated yield, we use a **Withdrawal Queue system** that processes unstake requests in a **First-In-First-Out (FIFO)** order. This method ensures fairness and orderly management of protocol liquidity.

The most important thing to know is that this process includes a **minimum 15-day waiting period** after your request is fulfilled by the queue.

### The Unstaking Process Explained

The process can be broken down into four simple steps from the user's perspective.

{% stepper %}
{% step %}
### Make a Withdrawal Request

You begin the process by initiating a request to unstake your `stAVAX`. At this moment, the system calculates and locks in the exact amount of AVAX you will receive based on the current `stAVAX` exchange rate.&#x20;

From this point on, the `stAVAX` in your withdrawal request will **no longer earn yield**.

Your request is then placed in a **First-In-First-Out (FIFO)** queue.
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Withdrawal Queue

When you submit a withdrawal request, your request enters a 15-day withdrawal queue, to be matched with AVAX as staking cycles complete. During this time, your withdrawal amount is locked, and any additional yield generated by your stAVAX is distributed to the remaining holders in the vault.
{% endstep %}

{% step %}
### Claim Your AVAX in 3 Days

After the 15-day withdrawal queue is complete, a **3-day window** opens for you to claim your AVAX. It is important to claim your funds within this 3-day period.&#x20;

If the window closes before you claim, the request will expire, and your unclaimed AVAX will be converted back into stAVAX and be returned to your wallet automatically to ensure your funds are never permanently locked.
{% endstep %}
{% endstepper %}

{% hint style="info" %}
## Important Information

* **Canceling a Request:** You have the flexibility to cancel your withdrawal request at any point before it becomes claimable.&#x20;
  * When you unstake, **your stAVAX is converted to a fixed AVAX value**, therefore, **canceling reconverts that AVAX back to stAVAX at the&#x20;**_**active**_**&#x20;exchange rate**, which may differ from your original stAVAX amount due to ongoing yield accrual to the protocol.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %}
## Need Your AVAX Immediately?

If you need immediate liquidity and wish to skip the waiting period, you can swap your `stAVAX` for `AVAX` on various decentralized exchanges (DEXs) at any time. Please be aware that swapping on a DEX is subject to the current market price and may involve slippage.
{% endhint %}
